# EDA-ProstateCancer
#Abstract
 One of the greatest widespread cancers harming men around the globe is still prostate cancer. Patients benefit from early cancer detection during the course of treatment. This study aims to conduct Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) on prostate cancer manipulating a diverse dataset to gain insights to its various aspects. The dataset comprises data that was gathered over several years from a sizable cohort of patients who were eventually diagnosed with prostate cancer. We evaluated the distribution and interrelationships of numerous variables, including radius, smoothness, symmetry, texture and other parameters through methodical data research and visualization tools. A thorough overview of the dataset is also provided through the EDA's visualization. It allows one to identify trends and outliers by using bar charts, histograms, and line graphs to show the distribution of categorical and continuous variables. Additionally, scatter plots are used to show the interdependencies and correlations between various variables, assisting in the discovery of potential risk factors and prognostic markers. 

 The effectiveness of various supervised machine learning algorithms (such as Naïve Bayes) for predicting prostate cancer is compared and discussed in this paper. The main goal is to evaluate the efficacy and capability of each approach in the fields of various aspects like accuracy to ascertain whether the data classification was accurate. The training and test data may have an impact on the methods' accuracy. The findings of this study advance knowledge of prostate cancer and could help clinicians choose the best course of treatment and management for their patients. In the end, the information discovered through this exploratory data analysis may help in improving patient outcomes and prostate cancer detection and in its treatment.
